[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI Officers in Covenant Garden.
My name is Antigensky, I am here with Andrew Hunter Murray, and this week we are joined
by two great pillars of QI, the producer of QI, Piers Fletcher, and one of QI's longest
serving been there for a million years, researchers and historian Justin Pollard.
And once again, we've gathered around the microphones with our four favourite facts in the last
seven days, and in no particular audit here we go, starting with you Justin.
Okay, so the first person recorded ever buying a pornographic book in England was Samuel
Peep's.
So how was he recorded?
Typically idiotically, he managed to record it himself, because he knows Peep's wrote
this sort of 10-year diary, which is great, he records a great fire of London and the
plague and all sorts of big events, but the main use of it is he records the details
of his everyday life, and he wrote in his diary that he'd seen the idol Rogish book Les
Shoulder Fee which I have bought in plain binding, and he takes it home and he reads it, but
then he promises himself in his diary, which is written in short-hand, so nobody else can
read it, that as soon as I've read it, I will burn it, which as far as we know he did.
There's only one copy left of this book in the world.
Wow.
So he burned it in order to save himself the embarrassment of having it found among his
collection, but then he recorded the fact that he'd read it in his diary.
He felt the clearest prose of history.
When he bought it, he wrote in his diary, well I was thinking about getting it, because
in French, it would be a good translation tool for my wife, and then I think he saw what
was in it and thought maybe not.
Yeah, but the great thing is that he found it and then he went away for a month nearly.
It's obviously been praying on his mind, he could have gone, "I might just go down the
strand."
And then eventually, "Oh, look, is that bookshop again?"
And then he's apparently stayed there and he hang about in the bookshop for an hour before
actually buying it.
In a plane binding.
Exactly.
So sorry, was the plane binding in the same way as the adults read Harry Potter with a different
binding?
Yeah, exactly.
It was just so that, you know, when he's got only a shelf at home, it doesn't say pornographic
book.
He says the reason is because he was cheaper in plane binding and he only took it home in order
to destroy it.
No one destroyed it.
This is a diary.
He tends to know what else to read, but he's lying to himself, and it's the only thing.
It is work, because at the end of his diaries, because he gave up after about ten
years, the personal diary, because of his eyesight was failing.
He was making him blind.
Yeah.
That's right.
And he said, "I'm going to keep going with my other diary," because he kept another diary
going, but it was just official engagements and things like that.
And it was being kept for him by other people.
So he said, "I'll have to put in only what I can decently tell other people, and which
I will be sure won't get out."
Did he mean that for it to be seen?
Do we know?
We don't know for his private diary.
Certainly it is, not during his lifetime, not by his wife, obviously.
So he does recall sort of every detail in it, and he has numerous affairs.
But the funny thing is, he obviously must be very conflicted, because he's writing it,
as you say, in code.
But at the same time, he copies it out in fair, and puts it into leatherbounds, I think,
and makes sure that it's...
So there must be some parvin that was saying somebody's going to read this and enjoy this
one day.
Otherwise, you know, why would you bother him?
I think he must have thought.
I think that's like teenagers do that all the time, don't they?
Right about their boyfriends and pretend that they want to hide the knowledge of it and
leave it carefully.
But in a long time, in the future, it will be lovely when people get to read about my life.
I think what he had was an early case of Port noise complaint.
Port noise complaint is a disorder in which strongly felt ethical and altruistic impulses
are perpetually worrying with extreme sexual longings of a perverse nature.
Yeah, because he does say he's, there's nothing wrong with a decent man, a morally upstanding
man reading material like that, for the sake of educating himself.
And he justifies himself.
As they did right into the 19th century with the secret room of the British Museum,
which contained all the sort of phallic statuary and things that were considered inappropriate
for the public.
There was a secret museum at Naples, and it's exactly the same thing.
All the erotic art that was found at Pompey and Herculaneum, so there's a statue of the
god Pan, sort of, he's getting off with a goat.
Yes, that's extraordinary, he really is, they really are in a loving embrace.
Definitely, yeah.
And that is the same thing that happened.
Pompey had these erotic frescoes, and they had locked metal cabinets put over them.
But if you were a gentleman and you paid a small fee, they would remove the locked metal
cabinet from the top of the fresco, and you could see it.
But if you're a woman, no dice, I'm afraid, Anna.
The interesting thing is, what you're saying is the first recorded instance of by your
own buying pornography, but apparently what happened was, most pornography at that time
was circulated in the form of manuscript, miscellaneous, that people would keep, people
would keep a miscellany of these kinds of things, but also recipes and political tracks and school
exercises, and they'd just keep them all bound together for themselves and to give to their
friends.
But there was only ever one copy of each one.
I've got one here.
This is the guy, I mean, Anthony Scattergood, who was a theologian in English.
In his miscellany, he has an erotic poem called "On Six Cambridge Mades Bailing Themselves
by Queen's College" during the 15th, 1629, which is quite good.
And then immediately after that is a recipe that says, "For the eyes, take snails and prick
them through the shells with a great pin, and they will issue out a fat water, drop the
same into the eyes evening and morning."
Wow.
And you know, so that, frankly, probably less attractive than the six...
Anyway, that was the kind of thing they just gathered together in this miscellany.
And often in verse form as well, because if it was in verse, it was a sort of a little bit
less sort of graphic, it was a bit more arty if it was in verse, so best selling pornographic
verses of the 15th century is a book called "The Tale of Two Lovers" in Ginoe wrote it.
Oh, that was the Pope's one, wasn't it?
He was Pope-Past, the second.
Wow.
This was to be fair before he became Pope, then he wrote this book.
All the Popes have a past, don't they?
So there was the goalkeeper and there was the Hitler-Euth guy, as you know.
Yeah.
And the one who wrote "The Tale of Two Lovers."
That is saucy of the most Popes.
Samuel Piebs.
My favourite line in all the diaries is he woke up and he was going down into the cellar
and his exact words are "and put my foot into a great heap of turds by mistake."
That's just very funny.
One of the only things I knew about Samuel Piebs is that he buried his parmesan during
the Great Fire of London.
Oh, yes.
I did not know that he was involved in the Great Fire of London, and then he went to visit...
He's not at it.
Yeah?
No, he went to visit the King halfway through and advised the King, "Will you need
to pull down the houses where the fire hasn't got to yet and make what they call a fire
break?"
So it doesn't spread outside that area.
Didn't he say he also said that the fire of London went on for months and months after
we thought it did?
So I think it was still burning in March the following year.
What?
Yeah.
It's not weird.
And it started in September, so I think...
No.
Really?
Really strange.
Another thing I didn't know about him was that he sort of wore spectacles, which he was
very impressed by and thought worked really well.
But what they were was paper tubes, which had been invented a few decades earlier.
And they were just rolled up bits of black paper and they were wider at the eye end than
they were at the reading end, and so they focused right in on tiny lettering, and it kind of
worked.
I guess it gets rid of...
You're glad?
Well, it's a small aperture, isn't it?
You know how with a camera, people don't use old fashion cameras, but with a small aperture
on the lens, you get a much greater depth of field and you're just using that effect.
You know, he said that Nero had emeralds polished as glasses, so for his reading, but he was Nero.
Yeah.
And that's probably a made-up story.
OK, let's move on to fact number two, and that is from Pizz.
Yeah, this is me.
My fact is that if 50 people swam continuously for 15 months in an Olympic-sized swimming pool,
the water would boil.
Ha!
Have you worked that out?
Yeah.
I've got the physics.
The thing is...
It's rubbish.
The physics, you know, basically doesn't work, but so what we do...
It's an idealised model, but what this comes from is the general James Jewel, after whom
the Jewel is named, named, and a Jewel is the amount of energy it takes to lift a tomato
one metre from the ground.
But the thing is...
I'll bigger tomato.
A hundred-gram tomato.
Right.
Standard tomato.
Oh, you're a standard European tomato.
Yeah.
Anyway, it's also the point is it's also the amount of energy released when you drop the
tomato back to the ground, and that each of those is one Jewel.
And the point about that is conservation of energy.
You can't create a destroy energy, only converted from one for another.
So, if you have people swimming around, they raise the temperature of the water, and he
demonstrated this, and he had a tank, which was sealed, and he had a paddle in it, and
a rope, which...
Or a string of something that came out of the top over a pulley, and then he had a weight
on the end, and the weight drops, turns the paddle, and he measures the temperature of
the water, and is able to demonstrate that the amount of energy from the dropping
weight is exactly equal to the amount of energy from the increase in temperature in the water.
So...
Does it matter what stroke you'd be doing?
No.
It's just about your body heat.
Well, that's the other thing.
It's not about your body heat.
For the purposes of this calculation, I've excluded the body heat effect.
Right.
If you excluded the fact that if you put people in 50 degree water, they tend to sort of
stop functioning.
Certainly after 15 months.
I've got various things that need to be left out of the calculation here in often making
work.
One of them is that the water, in this idealised swimming pool, doesn't radiate heat
away.
They create all stays there.
The other is that there's nothing to do with the body heat, and the other thing is that
you have to find a swimming pool that's open on Christmas Day, because otherwise...
That is the hardest thing, as opposed to the laws of thermodynamics, which are easy to
move around.
Is it a lido that we're looking for?
Yeah, and the other thing actually, which makes it difficult, is an Olympic-sized swimming pool.
You know, this does not have a standard size.
Really?
The depth is not standard.
It can be anything from two metres to three metres.
The pool in my illustration, I'm not going to actually run till these numbers, so I'm
looking at this, but it's two metres deep.
It starts at 20 degrees, it would take 11,200 hours, which is 466 days, to raise the temperature
by 80 degrees from that.
And the other thing, of course, you've got to contend with, is what point people die.
You can replace them, though, so you could just have substitutes to simply just stand in.
Are you getting people to dive into a swimming pool, which is 90 degrees already?
Yes, for doing it full of fecal matter on you and...
Yeah, if you could put me down for an early shift, please slash that would be great.
So many caveats.
There's an entire thesis of caveats for this.
But once we've overcome them, this is teemaking for the future.
Guys, I'm afraid it's not in the idealised realm of physics, but it is an actual fact, so I don't know.
Okay, so this is about urinating in swimming pools.
So if a pool is chlorinated and you have a wiener, it creates a chemical called cyanogen chloride.
Do you know this?
And it's toxic.
It reacts with nitrogen.
It's when chlorine reacts with the nitrogen in your urine.
And it acts basically as tear gas, and cyanogen chloride is classified as an agent of chemical warfare.
So when you have a pee in the swimming pool, you are technically in breach of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons.
You are a war criminal.
If you are a swimming pool.
If you don't report it to the OPCW, then yeah.
That is actually a bit more idealised experiment than mine.
Well, there is a calculation on this as well.
And it was to see whether you could produce enough cyanogen chloride in this same Olympic sized swimming pool
that we found that was open on Christmas Day.
Is that the boiling one?
Yeah.
That would cause a fatal amount of cyanogen chloride to be created.
So this is done by Casey Johnston at Ars Technica.
And she calculated that what you needed is 2500 parts per billion.
That's a fatal dose of cyanogen chloride.
She said what it turned out you would need is a swimming pool that was two parts water to one part chlorine.
So is anyway completely fatal to swimming before you get it.
And you also need about 3 million people to have a P in it before they were killed by the chlorine in the pool.
So we can't put it to military use just yet.
Wheel pattern pools onto the front line.
No, it does also make a thing called a trichloramine, which is another lung irritant.
And it makes a tiny bit of chloroform as well.
Who knew that this must be going on when you had a P in the pool?
There is a way of making flashes boiling pool work, of course.
So you have to do just one simple thing to his pool of water and the people without killing them.
All you have to do is raise the pool up a mere 18 kilometres into the air.
Well, 18 kilometres in the air, then water will boil at blood temperature.
That's probably a better solution.
So which would probably be easier, actually, if you just raised up, it's called the Armstrong limit.
We've made a breakthrough. I mean, people said this is actually very useful.
But it has been checked because, of course, when pilots are very high, above 18 kilometres you have to wear a precious suit.
I don't know how much oxygen you're getting from oxygen mask.
Because beyond that point, things like your tears and your saliva start to boil.
Stop boiling.
There is a recording of an American pilot who said the last thing we remember before blacking out,
this is going above 18 kilometres without a precious suit, is feeling the sensation of his saliva boiling on his tongue.
Wow.
That's going to be unpleasant.
Do you know about boiling in space?
This is very cool.
So this is a thing which hadn't been done, obviously, for decades, because they have more pressing things to go into the moon.
But obviously, the further up you go, the lower the boiling point of water.
And in the 1990s, they did a series of experiments on boiling on the space shuttle.
And they found out that when you boil a kettle, it has thousands of thousands of bubbles.
When you boil a liquid in space, it just produces one big bubble.
No.
Then it's hovers up all the other bubbles, it swallows up all the others.
So you just have one massive bubble when your tea is ready.
That's so great.
I was listening to a podcast the other day called Smart Enough to Know Better,
which is an excellent podcast, really interesting.
And they were actually talking about a guy who tries to break records for blowing the biggest bubbles.
And he was saying once a bubble goes above five metres in diameter, if you puncture it, it no longer pops, it tears.
Isn't that cool?
So if you blow a gigantic soap bubble, it won't pop anywhere.
In Edinburgh this year, we were after a show called The Amazing Bubble Man. It was a children's show.
It was unbelievably good.
We're watching a bit of it through the curtains.
Did you feel a bit like a let down after it?
We couldn't follow it, but all his audience were four-year-olds and all our audience were not four-year-olds.
So it was all right.
But oh man, so you know, he fills a bubble with smoke.
He sort of injects a bubble, hypothetically, and then pumps smoke into it and it floats up.
And when it pops, it produces this weird cloud of smoke.
He has a sort that can sort of slice bubbles in two.
You don't actually need a sort to do that.
You can get in for a moment as far as difficult to obtain or do the same.
That's true.
Yeah, it's fascinating.
He sort of puts bubbles on people.
You can put bubbles along the arm of a child, for example, because they don't have hair on the arm.
But for an adult with more hair on the arm, you can't do that because it doesn't quite work.
So yeah, all sorts of very interesting stuff.
What about plug for him?
I know, I know.
It's about how you can't remember his name.
He doesn't need it. He's hugely successful.
It's just well into, I know, his kind of grotesque, but the business about how the best way to kill a lobster.
Oh yeah.
And because there's a sharply divided opinion between...
Lobsters?
I mean, you put them in cold water and bring it up to the heat gradually.
And then they sort of go to sleep and then they're inacitized and die without any.
Or else you plunge them into boiling water and that kills them instantly.
Or you stab them in the back.
Or you don't kill them at all, which is the PETA-Peter position.
If you do the PETA method and don't kill them, they're going to be very feisty on the plate.
It's no problem.
They are.
We do know what happens if you boil a human alive, though, because there's a description of one.
Oh, really?
From the reign of Henry VIII, a cook called Richard Rus, who poised the Bishop of Rochester.
And he got caught and he thought, "It's a joke. I gave him a purgative. It's just a joke. It's funny. Give him a runny tummy."
But Henry VIII was incensed and actually put an act of attainment around against him.
So he could be convicted without trial.
Then persuaded the parliament to make poisoning an act of treason.
Then, when he thought it couldn't get any worse, decided that the penalty for poisoning would be being boiled alive.
So poor old Richard Rus, who apparently had just had a bit of a joke with his employer,
and then being boiled alive.
And there's someone who was actually watched, said he roared mighty loud and diverse women who were big with child,
did feel sick at the sight of what they saw, and were carried away half dead.
And other men and women did not seem frightened by the boiling alive, but would prefer to see the headspin at his work.
What is in the executioner?
The executioner.
There are lots of different views.
Well, it's as good as having his head cut.
Did that catch on as a means of execution? Or is he unique?
No, there were a few others. There were actually a few before.
It's often said that Henry VIII invented boiling alive.
They're actually in Scotland, they're a few.
There was a layered somewhat earlier, who's upset some of his nobles by apparently being too harsh with them.
And they got together and threw him in a kettle.
And apparently, then to prove they were all in it together, they all took a glass of the stew that they made by boiling their layered alive and drank it.
Do you guys know about the world's deepest swimming pool?
I don't know about the world's deepest swimming pool.
There's not actually that much to say about it, except that I like it because it's called The Deep Joy,
which sounds like a quote from one of Samuel Peep's favorites.
But I think this is in Belgium, and you can walk through a tunnel at the bottom of it.
And it's the depth of 9 or 10 double-decker buses, I think.
That's really cool.
Here's my question though, but what's the point of having a deep end at all in this swimming pool?
Why don't you just make it all sort of a normal type?
That's annoying. You want to dive down.
Well not much, particularly.
I mean, you think it's what you want to understand on your hands and have your feet sticking out, don't you?
You could do that, a shallow end flash.
A shallow end flash.
Otherwise, you have to do all the other noobs up the shallow end.
And you could have the whole pool, people standing upside down.
Flash has been possibly removed from many public pools.
No, the only point, if you're going to do a very steep vertical dive.
Yeah.
Otherwise, I guess they have to build that into the plans of the pool.
In case someone misses the sign saying, please do not do a steep vertical dive.
Because following the advice of Pierce Fletcher, we have made the entire pool a depth of only a meter and 30.
Feel free to stand on your hands.
It makes it really difficult to boil the water, you know, because it's so much more.
Okay, time for fact number three.
And that is my fact.
And this is that, in Wales, the size of your garden used to be determined by how far you could throw.
And so this is a tradition in Wales that apparently is very well known.
And I went to the trouble because I don't want to offend anyone of looking up how you pronounce it.
And it's called te unos, which means one night house.
And it was this tradition that apparently dates back to the middle ages, according to Welsh folklore,
which is that if you could build a house within a night and have a fire burning in the hearth
and smoke coming out of the chimney by the morning, then you own that property.
And then the rule was that you could stand on your hands.
The rule was that you could stand on each of the four corners of your house and throw an axe
and the distance that you threw it marked out the boundaries of your property.
And that's what you owned.
And they continued doing this up until the 19th century.
It was never legally...
I've never found a law.
It was never a legal thing.
I think we just did it.
You get quite a big garden throwing in it.
Oh, no, no, no.
I'm hugely relieved I didn't live in pre-19th century Wales because I would have had the smallest garden of all of my neighbours.
There's an actual example of a house, which is, or in fact there's several, where there's one in particular supposed to be built that way.
You know about this and there's no doni at this time.
There's no doni at this time.
Yes, this is where, because I went on holiday, the ugly house.
Yeah, I was in Wales last week, so saw it and found out about this thing in an old book.
But yeah, there is this house in Snowdonia called the ugly house, which is actually really attractive now.
In a sort of tumble-downy sort of way, but it looks like something out of Hansel and Gressel or something.
And I think that was made by two brothers in the 15th century.
Was it? Was that the legend?
Well, that's the legend, but apparently they think it's more likely to be in 19th century cottage.
Yeah, that's more likely to be.
The other thing is Hill, which is the word they translate as ugly, really doesn't mean ugly in Welsh.
It means rugged.
Oh, really?
Much nicer.
It does look rugged.
Yeah.
Well, a load of the houses that tea in us houses were obviously not very good because they'd been built in a night.
So a load of them were torn down.
But then they were replaced later on by more modern cottages on the same site.
They'd just nip into your garden, build a shade overnight, light a fire in it, throw me acts,
and you wake up in the morning to find that I own half your garden.
Yeah.
And then later I build a very nice house on that.
A nice conservatory on the side, and then there's a swimming pool in place of my house when I've gone out.
Yeah, but it happened.
I'd welcome you, Justin.
I was just going to say you see, it might not be a law, but you can see how it's the kind of thing that people would believe.
Or at least they'll talk about it in the pub.
Apparently, you know, if you do this.
And then you can say, well, let's do it, and they go out and they do it, and then we'll have a laugh, and then they see if they can get away with it.
The pen's been on notices, I suppose, isn't it, really?
Yeah.
I mean, there is a law of adverse possession in the UK, which changed in 2012, but still exists, whereby if it's called squatters relics,
it's a short hand for it.
And if you own a piece of land and act like the proprietor of it for long enough, then it can become your land.
Do you have to be in it for seven years or something?
Twelve years.
Well, you can't now go and score in someone else's house if it's their home, and then wait for the process, you know, have them appeal to the courts.
You can immediately be chucked out for that now.
That's good.
You could even create your own private beach, because you know, most of the foreland in Britain is owned by the crown.
That's the bin between sort of midway between the neat and the spring high tide mark and the ocean is owned by the crown.
But if you wanted your own beach, there were just a couple of simple things you have to do.
You have to find a nice, quiet beach somewhere, put up a sign saying private keep out, as you often see on beaches, actually, even though they're not.
You could put up a little fence, don't have to, but it's nice to put up a little fence, just show that you're carrying for the land.
Roll up your trousers, take your socks off, go for a paddle, and all you have to do is stay there for 60 years, and the beach is yours.
60 years!
60 years of paddling, and the beach is yours.
You didn't know how many Olympic swimming pools you could boil in that time.
You don't actually have to be literally on the beach all that time.
And I do wonder if those people who put up private beach signs are actually waiting for 60 years to then say they now own the foreshore.
I wouldn't have the nows to do this before the age of, let's say, 20.
So by the age of 80, you'll have a beach.
It's a gift for the crown, isn't it?
It's like planting trees, you know, stealing a foreshore.
So this thing about throwing a thing and seeing how far it lands.
I looked into it, and I found a book called The History of the Germanic Empire Volume 3, which was published in 1835.
Best volume?
It's an absolute cracker.
And it describes a load of these customs.
So a shepherd could see how far he could drive his flock into someone else's forest by throwing his crook as far as he could.
Or wherever it lands, you can drive your sheep in that far.
Or a woodcutter could cut wood according to how far he could throw his axe.
Could you only throw it once or...?
I don't know.
The history of The Germanic Empire Volume 3 is pretty sketchy on details.
But I just found this other custom which I thought I had to share with you, which is if you kill someone else's dog to make restitution to them,
what you had to do is hang it up by the tail with its nose just touching the ground.
And then you had to cover it with wheat.
So it was completely invisible.
So you completely covered the whole dog with wheat.
And then that heap of wheat is the compensation that's due to the person whose dog who kills.
Heap of wheat covered in dog cock is so precious.
If it's a toy dog, then you're fine.
That's just a small loaf of bread you shove it into in your sausage.
The thing about throwing the axe, the way they found out how much your territorial waters were internationally,
were how far you could fire a cannon back in the day.
In fact, not even know that long ago under international law.
Until the mid-20th century, territorial waters were decided it were three nautical miles, which was the length of the cannon.
No!
And the idea was that that was the distance that you could dominate the sea.
Defensible distance.
Wait, you could fire a cannon three miles.
Three nautical miles.
Of course you could fire a six-kilometre.
Spain claimed six nautical miles, but that was unusual.
And the United Kingdom only extended from three miles to twelve in 1987.
I really thought when we suddenly got a cannon upgrade.
Got a bigger gun.
Yeah, these days you've got cruise missiles, which can go quite a long way.
So you could make a pretty good claim.
So I think that doesn't work anymore.
That's how it worked out.
Wow, that's interesting.
So it's actually such a...
And you'd presumably, these Welsh guys were saying, "Well, I can defend this house as far as I can throw this axe."
But then you have to go out and get the axe from a limitless approach.
You're still a big deal in North Wales.
Is it?
Yeah, apparently.
In fact, here's the interesting thing.
At this moment, there is a thing that's taking place, which is called the Good Life Experience.
And Howard and the State of North Wales.
And Karris Matthews runs an annual axe throwing competition there.
I know who that is.
Yeah, she said.
You know, Karris Matthews.
Karris Matthews and some other people, but she's the one I'd heard of.
So it's Karris Matthews.
Yes, that is.
Well, it's becoming a trend here.
And James Harkin, formerly of this podcast, has done axe throwing with his wife, Felina,
and said it was the best one he's ever had.
I think there's one in Sheditch.
The best for e-lives are quite nice.
Well, we should read peeps.
But they are still, apparently, people still use Tomahorks in a military sense.
This is true.
I think in the Korean War, people actually brought throwing axes as part of their gear.
The Americans brought throwing axes.
Here's the thing about Tomahorks, which I did not know, is that loads of Native American Tomahorks
had hollow handles and could be used to smoke through.
And basically, if some Native Americans met some white settlers,
it could go one of two ways.
You use the axe either to hit them or you sort of, you come to some sort of agreement
and then you smoke together to seal the deal.
That's amazing.
In the film, you see the shadow of this shape and be holding it up
and then you cut and he's a piece fight.
That's a guy.
That would work.
This is so random, but I discovered, since we're talking about America and Wales,
that the first Welsh settler in America was called Howell Power.
Howell Power.
I like that.
But anyway, I was actually going to talk about squatting in America generally.
In 2004, a woman in Georgia came over from a holiday.
And there was a car in her drive.
And all the lights were right in her house.
And so she went into her house.
There was a stranger in there, a woman, who was wearing all this woman's clothes.
She changed all her utility bills into her name.
She'd installed her washing machine and she'd installed a dryer and she'd moved her dog in.
And this woman had just moved in, pretended to be her.
So the lady arrived home, said, get out of my house.
And we have no idea why she did that.
She'd ripped out a carpet. She didn't like how one room was painted.
So she re-painted it.
What happened?
She went to prison.
The which one did?
The right moment.
I mean, that's a film, isn't it?
Who's house is it?
This lunatic turned up claiming to be me and it was my house.
That's a good teleformat is who actually owns the house.
And you get the two claimants and you have to ask them questions about where are the switches?
If a light goes the trip switches, you know?
Squatting through the keyhole.
Who would squat in a house like this?
Yeah!
Okay, we should move on to our final fact and that is from Andy.
My fact is that some caterpillars find new friends by drumming on their anuses.
Work on me?
Yeah.
So this actually, this fact was sent in by somebody by Gourish Chawler.
So thank you very much for sending us in.
I liked it so much.
This is the masked birch caterpillar.
And it lives on birch leaves and it spins cocoons out of silk.
But sometimes they need a lot of caterpillars to join in the silk cocoon ceremony
and maintain their hiding place.
So what they do is they do anal drumming.
So they bang their anuses on the ground.
They drum their anus on the leaf.
And it summons the other caterpillars.
But they're very versatile because also if they have rivals and they want to scare a rival away sometimes,
then they will do anal scraping.
That's different from anal drumming.
Oh, yeah.
As we all know.
So they have a thing called an anal awe.
And they...
Law what?
Not a choice I want to be presented with.
If you don't have a very strong musical ear as a caterpillar
and you misinterpret the come hither for the trouble please,
then yeah, you're really in trouble.
Yeah.
Well, the thing is that there's a recording of this thing online.
You found that.
But there's the woman who researches it says you can't really hear it.
But if you get a laser vibrometer, you hear this crazy rumbling sound.
They actually sound like lions.
Really tiny lions.
She's called Jane Yak, this researcher.
And she says they talk to themselves with their asses as well.
Talking with their butts even when they were alone.
When feeding they go chomp, chomp, chomp, anal scrape.
Chomp, chomp, chomp.
Nothing unusual about that.
I don't get invited to many dinner parties.
The Alcon Blue caterpillar also makes a scraping noise.
But not for other caterpillars.
It makes a scraping noise that red ants mistake for a queen red ant.
And it releases a sort of a chemical that smells like them as well.
So the red ants then take the caterpillar into their ant hill.
Kick out the actual queen ant.
The caterpillar sits there eating the larvae to which the ants don't seem at all bothered.
Because it smells like a queen, it looks like it doesn't look like it.
But it smells like a queen, it's making a queen you sort of noise.
Right up until the moment when it pupates and it stays in there protected by the ants,
then it bursts out.
At which point all the ants go wait a minute.
There's a butterfly in the middle of the ant hill, which is unusual.
But they're covered in really loose scales when they come out.
So the ants make a grab for it and all the scales just come off.
And it just climbs out and flies away.
Brilliant, that's amazing.
Brilliant.
Is our own queen actually the queen?
Or is she just an enormous caterpillar?
Imagine if one year for the state opening of Parliament,
she comes out and she seems to be covered in these loose scales.
Oh, what's going on there?
Oh they floor to be a crab.
Do you know they have carnivorous caterpillars in Hawaii?
What are they?
Beef.
They eat snails.
They trap the snail in the silken noose and then they eat it alive
because the snail can't move and the caterpillar sort of goes into the hole,
the front door, as it were.
And the snail tries to withdraw further and further into its own shell.
Then it runs out of space and then gets eaten alive and eat the whole thing.
That's a rough way to go, packed into a corner.
They should have covered this.
He's called Daniel Rubinoff.
He said almost all insects are predators.
But to find a caterpillar going after snails are real shocked,
it's like finding a wolf diving for clams.
Well, we'll have to take his word with that, I suppose, because he's the expert.
That would be a shock.
I would be a man.
If I was a snail, I would have a trap door in the back of my shell.
Or a panic room.
Which, yes.
Marine shells do.
They have an apurculum.
They have a little trap door they can close up their shell.
Speaking of the words, "back door."
Oh, no, I have a fact about, because the fact is about anal drumming.
I have a fact about the giant California sea cucumber.
It's a lovely organism, lives in the ocean, and it uses its anus as a mouth,
in spite of already having a mouth.
Or does it use its mouth?
It uses its mouth as a mouth.
It's very greedy.
But then when there's food around, it's sort of like, "Oh, I haven't been in half a bit of my bum."
That's the series of tubes which go up from its bottom,
and it gets water in through those tubes, and it sucks the oxygen out of the water.
That's how it gets its oxygen.
But it also has these blood vessels, and they found that food has been making its way
through these blood vessels from the bottom.
So that's how they're food.
Brilliant.
On anuses, actually, I was reading about scorpions anuses,
and scorpions sometimes lose their anuses in, you know, some creatures do auto-totomy.
Yes.
But the problem with scorpions, these particular scorpions, is that they commit auto-tomy.
So if you threaten them from behind, then they drop their tail off.
But their anuses at the end of their tail.
So once they've done that, they can no longer defecate.
Or sting.
Or sting, indeed.
So they just wave around randomly a little butt.
In fact, the guy who discovered this, a guy called Matoni, said that once it had lost its tail,
he could see the build-up of fecal matter in the back of it.
I've got a photograph of it, haven't I?
Yeah.
And they can't grow it back.
They can't grow it back.
The thing is, they can breed in the before they die, you know what I mean?
They can bring up a family and pay the school fees.
So there's no problem?
It's not a good chat up line though.
It's like losing your hair.
You can still breed before you die.
Yeah.
In principle.
There is a tiny species of jaw worm, which doesn't have a common name.
It's called haplornatia, which has a transient anus.
For most of the time, it doesn't have a bottom.
And it eats things, and when it needs a bottom, a bottom appears for a while.
It uses the bottom, and then the bottom goes away again.
That's so useful.
Yeah, transient anus.
Think how useful that would be.
I can imagine supermodels wanting to invest in that sort of thing,
because an anus isn't actually that appealing body part.
I know they say a lot of things would be a good name for a band,
but transient anus would be a fantastic name for a band.
Matoni worms.
Do you know the larvae of the emperum off?
It's said in the thing I read commonly eaten in Africa,
but the Africa is always used to mean just this like a brew.
And you eat it by squeezing it like a tube of toothpaste,
and then giving a quick flick of the wrist
to expel the slimy green contents of the gut.
And it's a nutritious snack.
And there's a bloke who was caught at Gatwick,
with four sacks of these things,
which confiscated and destroyed.
And the customs said they were worth 40,000.
What?
I know, but I looked up the cost,
and you could buy 40,000 in for 16.99 online,
which means that if it really was 40,000 worth,
this is in 2013.
He must have been carrying the same weight as a baby elephant.
I saw that.
I think it was about 100 kilos.
And he claimed that they were for personal consumption.
Exactly that.
How was he getting that much into the luggage?
He just packed your backpack really densely.
You could get away with a lot of them.
You cannot squeeze that into one of those tiny little wire containers
that they easy to check in.
Well, he didn't...
I don't know if it may not have been hand luggage.
This was an unusual seizure,
but the vigilance of our officers has stopped these dried inscriptions
from entering the UK.
Right.
And possibly posing a risk to our food chain.
A bit of a tingrid smith.
That's the smoke smith for the UK Board Regency talk.
I love the idea that you need vigilance to spot
100 kilos of dried caterpillars in sacks.
Okay, that's all of our facts today.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us here,
you can get in touch with the others on Twitter.
And he's on...
At Andrew Hunter M.
Justin.
At Justin Pollard.
Flash.
That is retro.
Wow, they all have Twitter accounts.
I didn't think either of you would.
What's your account?
My account is an email address,
which is podcast@QI.com,
or you can go to @QIPodcast,
which is our group account,
or listen to any of our previous episodes
at nosuchthingsofish.com,
or any of the first 52 are available to buy on iTunes,
if you look up.
First year of fish.
That's all for this week.
See you again next week.
Thanks for listening.
Bye-bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]